---
layout: essay
type: essay
title:  Good People Creating Websites for Bad People
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-04-25
labels:
  - Ethics
  - Programming
  - Law
---

After reading the post “The Code I am Still Ashamed of” by Bill Sourour, I thought his situation was extremely relatable. To me, ethics in terms of software engineering relates more to stealing people’s codes and passing them off as your own or doing something like changing the clients request to steal information. In the case of “The Code I am Still Ashamed Of” I don’t think it would be extremely unethical to create a website for unethical people. You cannot control the companies you work for, only the work that you do for them. 

The article was about an extremely young programmer (about 21 at the time)  who took a job to create a website that promoted a drug. He was contracted to rig the website so it would always prescribe the drug no matter what they answered with on the quiz. As a result, a young girl died from the drug. To me, that is the doctor’s fault, not the programmer’s, and even that is debatable. If the programmer had decided to create a drug that killed people intentionally, or intentionally sent this girl to the drug, then it would be the programmer’s fault, but he was just doing his job.

So in the case of Software engineering, I think it means to make sure everything in your control is ethical. If you create a website for bad people, that is not your fault it is theirs, but if you steal, that would be your fault. 

I don’t think Bill Sourour acted unethically, he was just doing his job; I can never blame someone for just doing their job. He may have worked for bad people, but that doesn’t make him bad. 

It reminds me of my situation where I am currently trying to collect rent and everyone makes me out to be a monster. I am just doing my job and fulfilling my client's requests. I cannot control what the landlords choose to do, people have contracts, rent needs to be paid. I can only control how I go about doing it. In the past few weeks I have had extremely angry people send me threats and people have even written news articles about me, but I have never acted unethically. 

