---
layout: essay
type: essay
title:  The Easy Way Out
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-04-30
labels:
  - Design Patterns
  - Patterns
  - Efficiency
---

Looking online, I found that the term design pattern has a few different meanings, so I will go with the geeksforgeeks definition of a reusable solution. 

Bill Gates famously said that he prefers to hire a lazy person because a lazy person will find the quickest solution. This is how I view design patterns; if a solution is already completed there's no point in banging your head against the wall to come up with a novel solution (Unless the objective of the assignment is “come up with a novel solution”). 

To help me think of design patterns I like to think of rifles that can be fully disassembled. If a part needs to be fixed or replaced, there are others exactly like it that have been proven to work rather than custom making each part. Using design patterns is like mass producing a part that you know will work in many situations. Implementing design patterns will also save a great amount of time in the long run. 

I have used design patterns in many of my engineering classes. The most recent example being in python for my 496 project. I needed to graph coronavirus cases (I chose the topic in January, before it was trendy to talk about it). While writing this program I noticed redundancies that I have been implementing in every program, except I had been hand writing them all out. I then created a new file with generalized methods that I could use in all my files. All the nodes (people) had a few common factors, so I just used that and put them into classes with basic information. After that, adding new graphs was extremely fast, it was just a matter of calling the new functions that I had made. 
